Epidemia is a program to simulate an epidemic, exploring realistic infection processes. It
is licensed under GPLv3.

It is written in Python3.8, and also requires a few non-default packages: numpy, matplotlib and
TkInter.

To run it from the command line:

python3.8 epidemia.py [-p population] [-i infectiousness] -P

will run for the specified population (in the range 10000-1000000) and infectiousness (default is 2.5,
anything in the range 1.5-4 should produce interesting results). It will show what is going on day by
day and when it has finished it will plot a graph (thanks to -P).

Many more options to control how it runs are described in the documentation.

Installation
------------

First clone or copy the files from github to some suitable directory. Then cd to the directory.

Now you will need python3.8, a Python virtual environment for it, and all the needed packages. Do
the following while running as sudo.

apt install python3.8
sudo apt-get install python3.8-venv
python3.8 -m venv .venv
source .venv/bin/activate
pip3 install numpy
pip3 install matplotlib
apt install python3-tk

Once you've done this, the above command line will run epidemia.

For other systems, and other Linux variants, do whatever results in the same effect.

More Options
------------

You can get a list of command line options by typing:

python3.8 epidemia.py -h

The most useful ones are as follows:

-a n       Set the auto-immunity, i.e. the probability that someone exposed to the disease will
           become immune without becoming infectious. It must be a value between 0 and 1. The default is 0.
-i n       Set the "infectiousness". This corresponds very roughly to the R0 number for the infection,
           i.e. the number of people who will be infected by a single victim, but that is also
           highly dependent on the "social" conditions. A value in the range 1.5-4 typically gives
           interesting results.
-L path    Set the path for log files. If this is specified, detailed daily logs of the simulation
           are created in the directory, and the graph is saved as a .png file.
-N n       Set the proportion of cities to be infected initially. Must be a number in the range
           0-1. The default is 0.5.
-n n       Set the number of people initially infected. The default is 20, but that can make the first
           few days slow and boring.
-P         Plot results.
-p n       Set population.
-R n       Run n times with same parameters, graphing the results. This shows how much the results
           change due to the randomness of the simulation.

Many more simulation parameters are accessible through a Java style properties file. The file base.props
contains all of them. To change just a few, create a file in the same format and append its name to the
command line after the options.

Documentation
-------------

Documentation is a work in progress. It is at doc/epidemia.html.